To serve the files, what we need to
do is to listen for another event.
It's called fetch,
the fetch event handler.
And this is how it looks like.
What we're going to do,
is the event argument
that we received has
a method called respondWith.
It receives as an argument or
an HTTP response, or
a promise of an HTTP response.
So it can be a sync response or
an async response.
So for example, just for testing this,
I can create my own response like this.
Now, JavaScript because now
we can create web servers or
kind of web servers,
I'm going to create a new response object.
So we have a constructor or
a class if you want,
responseR that receives a content
like hello, I'm a response, okay?
So I'm going to respond
with that response.
So this is like if you have
experienced with node JS,
this is like serving like the rest don't
write something like that, on node JS.
So let's see what happens.
I'm going back to Chrome,
I'm going to refresh.
And now I see hello, I'm in response,
I'm not even seeing my HTML.
Where is my HTML?
Well, now the server,
that is the service worker says,
this is the content that you want.
So any URL that we try, any URL, even
URLs that we know that they don't exist,
will actually answer hello,
I'm a response, that's all.
So we can just kill our
website in one second.
So if you upload the service
worker to an actual real website,
your website will not work.
And it will say, hello,
I'm a response on every URL.
There is one trick though,
without using that tools.
If you do shift+refresh,
it will bypass the service worker.
So Shift+Refresh will give me a 404,
a real 404 because yeah,
now it's bypassing the service worker,
the middleware.
And if I try the homepage will
Shift+Refresh you can see my HTML
is there.
But if I refresh, normal refresh without
Shift, my service worker will respond.
So this is how you synthesize
responses with a service worker,
you shall say respond in one.
So do we have any tool to know if
there are assets in the cache or not?
We have an API and we're going to
see the API in a couple of minutes.
So we can query the cache to see
if an asset is there or not.
As a developer the tool to check
is this one, exactly this one.
So you go to Dev Tools application,
cache storage and
you can see if the asset is there or not.
And in terms of libraries, if you don't
wanna write your own service worker,
the the one that you're looking for
is called workbox.
Workbox, it's a library
by the Chrome team,
workbox JS,
that will actually make this easier, okay?
So it's like, someone told me once,
is like the jQuery of service worker,
okay?
It's the library that you wanna use
when you're doing mid to large PWAs.
And actually, if you're using
the Angular CLI, the Vue CLI,
or the create-react-app CLI, and
you're creating progressive web
apps with those build chain tools.
Actually, they're using
workbox behind the scenes.
So this is probably the library
that you are looking for.
So of course,
these response can actually be different.
For example,
I can change this to a template of string,
and I can ask for the URL,
the event has a request option.
And that request option has a URL.
So this is actually
similar to one in node JS,
you receive the request and
you return a response.
Well, you have all the option,
you have the headers, the cookies,
everything because,
you are acting in the name of a server, so
you can see everything the server can see.
So now the difference is that if
I refresh, Now, I see the URL,
so any URL that I'm trying to load,
it's actually part of the response.
So I'm like echoing the URL, okay?
Of course, this is useless,
but I think that you
can get an idea of how powerful
the service worker is.
Because now using that URL,
you can serve something different for
example, if the URL is /fake,
I'm going to use this code.
And if not, I will just leave it as it is.
So I'm not going to
respond with in that case,
it will bypass the service worker and
it will go into the next work.
So with this code, now, if I look for
the CSS, I'm getting the CSS,
and if I'm getting the homepage,
I'm getting the PWA.
So if I try /fake,
I might still get a 404.
So the service worker is not acting
because the URL is always absolute.
So I need to actually say,
localhost 5000 fake.
If you don't wanna do that,
there is a URL API in JavaScript,
so you can actually take each part and
look for the path only.
And now /fake will give me
the synthesize response.
So when you're writing
your own service worker,
you need to be very careful
about what you're doing, right?
Because you can actually mess
with the navigation of your app.
Fortunately for you, you just need to
upload a new version, if you have a bug or
something and
the browser has an update algorithm.
So without that they don't reload there
is an update algorithm going on here.
So when the browser realized
that there is a new version,
it will prepare that new version for
the next user.
So you always have one version of
the service worker that will be old but
then on the next load, like in one
minute after the old one was killed.
On the next one, you will see the new one,
the new service worker instance.
So the service worker is a new paradigm
on the web, is really powerful but
you need to know what you're doing
because if not, you will have problems.